+++
title = "Genomic Analysis Revealed New Oncogenic Signatures in TP53-Mutant Hepatocellular Carcinoma"
date = 2018-02-01T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Venkatesh Kancherla", "Samir Abdullazade"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Frontiers in Genetics*"


# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The TP53 gene is the most commonly mutated gene in human cancers and mutations in TP53 have been shown to have either gain-of-function or loss-of-function effects. Using the data generated by The Cancer Genome Atlas, we sought to define the
spectrum of TP53 mutations in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) and their association
with clinicopathologic features, and to determine the oncogenic and mutational
signatures in TP53-mutant HCCs. Compared to other cancer types, HCCs harbored
distinctive mutation hotspots at V157 and R249, whereas common mutation hotspots
in other cancer types, R175 and R273, were extremely rare in HCCs. In terms of
clinicopathologic features, in addition to the associations with chronic viral infection and high Edmondson grade, we found that TP53 somatic mutations were less frequent
in HCCs with cholestasis or tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, but were more frequent
in HCCs displaying necrotic areas. An analysis of the oncogenic signatures based
on the genetic alterations found in genes recurrently altered in HCCs identified four
distinct TP53-mutant subsets, three of which were defined by CTNNB1 mutations,
1q amplifications or 8q24 amplifications, respectively, that co-occurred with TP53
mutations. We also found that mutational signature 12, a liver cancer-specific signature
characterized by T>C substitutions, was prevalent in HCCs with wild-type TP53 or
with missense TP53 mutations, but not in HCCs with deleterious TP53 mutations.
Finally, whereas patients with HCCs harboring deleterious TP53 mutations had worse
overall and disease-free survival than patients with TP53-wild-type HCCs, patients
with HCCs harboring missense TP53 mutations did not have worse prognosis. In
conclusion, our results highlight the importance to consider the genetic heterogeneity
among TP53-mutant HCCs in studies of biomarkers and molecular characterization of
HCCs."
abstract_short = "The TP53 gene is the most commonly mutated gene in human cancers and mutations in TP53 have been shown to have either gain-of-function or loss-of-function effects. Compared to other cancer types, HCCs harbored distinctive mutation hotspots at V157 and R249, whereas common mutation hotspots in other cancer types, R175 and R273, were extremely rare in HCCs. In terms of clinicopathologic features, in addition to the associations with chronic viral infection and high Edmondson grade, we found that TP53 somatic mutations were less frequent in HCCs with cholestasis or tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, but were more frequent in HCCs displaying necrotic areas. Our study highlights the genetic heterogeneity among TP53-mutant HCCs and that patients with HCCs harboring different types of TP53 mutations may be associated with distinct prognoses. Future work will be required to elucidate whether the co-occurring genetic alterations act synergistically with TP53 mutations to promote carcinogenesis in HCCs."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5801302/pdf/fgene-09-00002.pdf"
url_preprint = "#"
url_code = "#"
url_dataset = "#"
url_project = "#"
url_slides = "#"
url_video = "#"
url_poster = "#"
url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
